this is marketing School
[Music]
podcast all right so we are going to
talk about how the LinkedIn algorithm
has changed and here's how you can
actually win so there's actually two
things here but first we should give the
reason as to why LinkedIn is constantly
changing its algorithm a more and more
people are posting and the organic reach
is great and linkedin's team they
specifically said this they said I'm
paraphrasing here but they're just tired
of seeing random stuff going viral and
they know that they need to tweak the
algorithm to make it more interesting
and more relevant for people because if
it's going to be a lot of you know uh
techy bro Tech bro stuff or like people
kind of patting themselves on the back
back the whole time there's really no
point to use a platform anymore so let's
get started well it's also B2B social
network so if it's a B2B social network
they need similar content and the two
things they want to do is one make sure
that your followers are more likely to
see your content and two if you share
knowledge or advice they're going to
prioritize it in their platform because
they're tired of this viral stuff that's
going viral that has no need to be on
LinkedIn they want to still keep
LinkedIn a B2B social network they're
not trying to go after Facebook they're
not trying to go after Twitter they got
their Niche their Niche works extremely
well for them and by sticking with their
Roots I think it'll keep LinkedIn
continually growing and do well but the
moment they want to go outside that
vertical and just say hey we want to go
after Facebook or Instagram or Tik Tok
they're going to lose that's not the
type of network they are known for and
that's not where they started from so
first things first here's what has
changed if you post on LinkedIn is now
more likely that your followers re see
your post and so basically it says
LinkedIn has seen a 10% increase in
people viewing posts from people that
they follow yeah you follow people for a
specific reason you want to see their
content Facebook Instagram Tik Tok a lot
of them have gone away from that over
the years but that's one of the best
things if you like someone you follow
them and you keep seeing their content
if you don't you unfollow them and where
you don't follow them at all in the
first place and I think it's smart that
LinkedIn is pushing more on that because
a lot of other social networks don't
care about that
factor number two it says posts that
share knowledge and advice are now
prioritized throughout the platform so
whenever you think you're producing
content if you feel like it's helping
people be more productive and successful
you're winning and so LinkedIn has seen
nearly a 40% increase in people checking
out and viewing content that is grounded
in Knowledge from people that are out of
their Network work so knowledge and
advice and if you look at their past
Acquisitions like linda.com it makes
sense of what they're trying to do
because they're trying to go back to the
roots that's what made them successful
in the first place caused them to get
acquired by Microsoft and I think
they're going to continually push down
that direction here here's where we can
end it off so how LinkedIn identifies
knowledge and advice so number one the
post speaks to a distinct audience
that's one so is this relevant who is it
relevant to okay that is the kind of
thing that will likely get you to reach
the audience the Right audience as well
as well and number two the author is
writing in their core subject area so
really what they're saying here stay
focused and not try to say everything
under the sun because there's no way you
can have knowledge and advice for
everything under the Sun so go post more
educational based content on LinkedIn
that helps people out and you'll start
doing better based on their new
algorithm number three here too before
you stop Neil so the post has meaningful
comments so these engagement groups are
probably not going to work that well
anymore because everyone's like great
post well said happy face whatever right
yeah but but that changes been around
for a while dude cuz I remember uh
there's a lot of people that have these
social rings and they would just leave
comments like yes awesome amazing and
what we've seen with LinkedIn is not
only do they have to leave engaging
comment their comment needs to get
engagement as well so people responding
to it liking it and when they do that it
causes your post to go viral much
quicker now if you have any questions
leave a comment below I'm here to answer
them and help you out if you enjoy the
video like it share it tell people about
it thank you very much